+ [author(Github)](https://github.com)
# 第50节 NFS
+ [回到目录](../README.md)
+ [回到项目首页](../../README.md)
+ [上一节](49.md)
> ❤️💕💕CS自学指南,大学教育无论是深度还是广度都没有办法支撑我们的职业素养,这个板块算是自己在CS学习中额外补充和记录的。个人博客:[http://nsddd.top](http://nsddd.top/)
---
[TOC]

## Info

On December 21, 2022, it was reported that the Network File System (NFS) provides a solution for sharing files for enterprises with heterogeneous environments, including Windows.

On June 26, 2018, instructions were given on how to install the NFS client (services for NFS) on Windows. The user needs to open the "Programs and Features" section, click on "Turn Windows features on or off," and select the NFS client option.

On October 16, 2018, it was suggested that to enable the NFS client, users can use the Programs and Components management tool, "appwiz.cpl." The NFS client option can be found under the list of "components."



**To mount NFS on Windows 10, you need to follow these steps:**

1. Install the NFS Client on your Windows 10 computer. You can do this by going to "Programs and Features" and selecting "Turn Windows Features on or off". Then select "Services for NFS" and click "OK" to install the NFS Client.
2. After installing the NFS Client, open the "Command Prompt" as an administrator.
3. Use the "mount" command to mount the NFS share. For example, if the NFS server IP address is 192.168.1.100 and the NFS share is located at /mnt/data, use the following command:

```bash
mount -o anon \\192.168.1.100\mnt\data X:
```

In the above command, "X:" is the local drive letter you want to use to access the NFS share. You can choose any available drive letter.

> Once you have successfully mounted the NFS share, you can access it using the local drive letter you assigned in the previous step.

**Note:**  You may need to configure the NFS server to allow access from your Windows 10 computer. Also, make sure you have the necessary permissions to access the NFS share.



## Why?

+ [https://github.com/winnfsd/winnfsd](https://github.com/winnfsd/winnfsd)

Network File System (NFS) is one of the file systems supported by FreeBSD. It allows computers on a network to share resources over the TCP/IP network. In NFS applications, local NFS client applications can read and write files on the remote NFS server transparently, just like accessing local files.



**The following are the benefits of NFS:** 

1. Save local storage space. If common data is stored on an NFS server and accessible over the network, local terminals can reduce their storage space usage.

2. You do not need to have a Home directory on each machine on the network. The Home directory can be stored on the NFS server and can be accessed on the network.

3. Some storage devices such as floppy drives, CdroMs, and Zip (a type of disk drive and disk with high storage density) can be used by other machines on the network. This can reduce the number of removable media devices on the entire network.



## Install

+ Fork of WinNFSd_edited by ZeWarden(http://github.com/ZeWaren/WinNFSd_edited), based on WinNFSd by vincentgao (http://sourceforge.net/projects/winnfsd/).
+ License: GPL.
+ Runs on all major versions of Windows.

```bash
PS C:\Users\smile> scoop.cmd search nfs
Results from local buckets...

Name    Version Source Binaries
----    ------- ------ --------
winnfsd 2.4.0   main


PS C:\Users\smile> scoop.cmd install winnfsd
Installing 'winnfsd' (2.4.0) [64bit] from main bucket
WinNFSd.exe (268.5 KB) [==========================] 100%
Checking hash of WinNFSd.exe ... ok.
Linking ~\scoop\apps\winnfsd\current => ~\scoop\apps\winnfsd\2.4.0
Creating shim for 'WinNFSd'.
'winnfsd' (2.4.0) was installed successfully!
PS C:\Users\smile> winnfsd.exe
=====================================================
WinNFSd 2.4.0 [5f7f224]
Network File System server for Windows
Copyright (C) 2005 Ming-Yang Kao
Edited in 2011 by ZeWaren
Edited in 2013 by Alexander Schneider (Jankowfsky AG)
Edited in 2014 2015 by Yann Schepens
Edited in 2016 by Peter Philipp (Cando Image GmbH), Marc Harding
=====================================================

Usage: WinNFSd.exe [-id <uid> <gid>] [-log on | off] [-pathFile <file>] [-addr <ip>] [export path] [alias path]

At least a file or a path is needed
```



## Description

WinNFSd is a Network File System V3 (NFS) server for Windows.

You can use any NFS client to mount a directory of Windows and read/write files via NFS v3 protocol. It is useful when you usually access files of Windows on Linux and for especially for virtual machines, since it is much faster than shared folders.

You can also export any folder with an additional alias.

The export of multiple folders is also possible. Just put the shared foldes and an optional alias into a simple text file:

```bash
C:\path\to\a\mount > /alias
C:\path\to\another\mount > /another-alias
```

Then start winnfsd.exe like this: `WinNFSd.exe -pathFile C:\path\to\your\pathfile`







**reference data：**

1. [Обзор NFS - Windows Server - Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/ru-ru/windows-server/storage/nfs/nfs-overview)
2. [Как подключить NFS каталог в Windows 10](https://vmblog.ru/kak-podklyuchit-nfs-katalog-v-windows-10/)
3. [Использование клиента NFS в Windows 10 ред](https://blog.it-kb.ru/2018/10/16/using-the-nfs-client-in-windows-10-professional-edition/)
4. [Использование клиента NFS в Windows 10 редакции ...](https://blog.it-kb.ru/2018/10/16/using-the-nfs-client-in-windows-10-professional-edition/)
5. [How to Mount an NFS Share Using a Windows 10 Machine](https://graspingtech.com/mount-nfs-share-windows-10/)
6. [Mounting Unix Shares with a Windows NFS Cli](https://blog.netwrix.com/2022/11/18/mounting-nfs-client-windows/)





## END Links

+ [回到目录](../README.md)
+ [上一节](49.md)
+ [下一节](51.md)
---
+ [参与贡献❤️💕💕](https://github.com/3293172751/Block_Chain/blob/master/Git/git-contributor.md)